code/wind.generator/README.md, before:

# Wind Generator
## Based on a stepper motor

We want to use the wind energy to store 5V current in a powerbank, or such kind of storage.

Many such examples exist on the Internet.
- [All About Converting Stepper Motors To Generators](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-zCTggoh994&t=102s)
- [LowTech lab: Wind Turbine](https://wiki.lowtechlab.org/wiki/L%27%C3%A9olienne/en-gb)
- [Using Stepper Motors as Generators (Rectifiers, KBP 307 IC, & Alternatives)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=58XnKt1BxV0) 
- [How to Recycle Soda Cans Into a Wind Turbine!](https://www.instructables.com/How-to-Recycle-Soda-Cans-Into-a-Wind-Turbine-Gener/)
- And more!..

They're all good, but I could not find ALL I was looking for in a single one.  
So, here is my version of the setup.

### Stepper motors
There are many kinds of stepper motors.  
They're all made of coils, and magnets.  

Here is the cool thing about those motors:  
- When you provide current to a stepper motor, it will rotate.  
- And when you rotate a stepper motor, it will provide current !  
    - This is here what we're interested in.

We will use here a simple stepper motor - NEMA 17, made of two coils - hence four wires, that can be represented this way:

![Stepper - 4 wires](./images/stepper.schema.png)

The stepper motors I use look like the above, and come with a four-wire cable.  
Using a multi-meter, it is very easy to find the couples (`A1`, `A2`) and (`B1`, `B2`), mentionned on the diagram above. 

> Interestingly, when you rotate the motor, the pins (`A1`, `A2`) will provide Alternative Current (AC), **_as well as the pins (`B1`, `B2`)_**. It works like a small alternator.   
A four-wire stepper motor will provide **_TWO_** AC Outputs.  
> Those _**two**_ outputs can be used as two sources, serially, or in parallel, as we'll see.

As the motor rotation will produce alternative current, we will need and use a _rectifier_ to make it a positive-only current output.

As the tension of the output is proportionnal to the rotation speed, we will need:
- A capacitor to smooth it down.
- A tension regulator to finally get a 5V output (as expected here).

![Wiring](./images/01_bb.png)

> _Note_: The rectifier bridge (like a `KBP 307 IC`) is **NOT** represented on the diagram above. It looks like this:  

| Picture | Schema |
|:-------:|:------:|
| ![Picture](./images/bridge.01.jpg) | ![Schema](./images/bridge.02.jpg) |

The AC current enters through the 2 internal pins. Rectified current flows
through the external pins. Positive on the bevel side (left here), Ground on the other (on the right here).

> On the diagram above, note that there is only one coil conected. The same can be done with the second one.  
> Then it is your choice to use a serial or parallel setting.  
> Here we'd rather use a parallel one, to keep the voltage to 5V.
> The output would go to some 5V storage, like powerbank or so, like
> - [PowerBank](https://www.arrow.com/en/products/1565/adafruit-industries)
> - [PowerBoost](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1944)
> - etc...

#### BOM
Bill of Materials, for the electronic part.
- Stepper motor `NEMA 17`
- Rectifier Bridge, like `KBP 307 IC` (one per coil)
- A 1000&micro;F 25V capacitor (one per coil)
- A Voltage regulator, 5V output (one per coil)

### The turbine itself
`To come`.

#### Horizontal axis? Vertical axis?
[Several Options](https://all3dp.com/2/3d-printed-wind-turbines-wind-powered-gadgets/)

#### Transmitting the rotation, or the current?
`To come`.

## The final setting
`To come`.

## Other resources
- [phileole](https://phileole.com/en/homepage/)
- . . .

---

Commit message:

Added the french version doc - empty for now

code/wind.generator/README.md, after:

[French version](./README_fr.md)

# Wind Generator
## Based on a stepper motor

We want to use the wind energy to store 5V current in a powerbank, or such kind of storage.

Many such examples exist on the Internet.
- [All About Converting Stepper Motors To Generators](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-zCTggoh994&t=102s)
- [LowTech lab: Wind Turbine](https://wiki.lowtechlab.org/wiki/L%27%C3%A9olienne/en-gb)
- [Using Stepper Motors as Generators (Rectifiers, KBP 307 IC, & Alternatives)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=58XnKt1BxV0) 
- [How to Recycle Soda Cans Into a Wind Turbine!](https://www.instructables.com/How-to-Recycle-Soda-Cans-Into-a-Wind-Turbine-Gener/)
- And more!..

They're all good, but I could not find ALL I was looking for in a single one.  
So, here is my version of the setup.

### Stepper motors
There are many kinds of stepper motors.  
They're all made of coils, and magnets.  

Here is the cool thing about those motors:  
- When you provide current to a stepper motor, it will rotate.  
- And when you rotate a stepper motor, it will provide current !  
    - This is here what we're interested in.
    - And yes, it's like the dynamo I had on my bike, back in... the days.

We will use here a simple stepper motor - NEMA 17, made of two coils - hence four wires, that can be represented this way:

![Stepper - 4 wires](./images/stepper.schema.png)

The stepper motors I use look like the above, and come with a four-wire cable.  
Using a multi-meter, it is very easy to find the couples (`A1`, `A2`) and (`B1`, `B2`), mentionned on the diagram above. 

> Interestingly, when you rotate the motor, the pins (`A1`, `A2`) will provide Alternative Current (AC), **_as well as the pins (`B1`, `B2`)_**. It works like a small alternator.   
A four-wire stepper motor will provide **_TWO_** AC Outputs.  
> Those _**two**_ outputs can be used as two sources, serially, or in parallel, as we'll see.

As the motor rotation will produce alternative current, we will need and use a _rectifier_ to make it a positive-only current output.

As the tension of the output is proportionnal to the rotation speed, we will need:
- A capacitor to smooth it down.
- A tension regulator to finally get a 5V output (as expected here).

![Wiring](./images/01_bb.png)

> _Note_: The rectifier bridge (like a `KBP 307 IC`) is **NOT** represented on the diagram above. It looks like this:  

| Picture | Schema |
|:-------:|:------:|
| ![Picture](./images/bridge.01.jpg) | ![Schema](./images/bridge.02.jpg) |

The AC current enters through the 2 internal pins. Rectified current flows
through the external pins. Positive on the bevel side (left here), Ground on the other (on the right here).

> On the diagram above, note that there is only one coil conected. The same can be done with the second one.  
> Then it is your choice to use a serial or parallel setting.  
> Here we'd rather use a parallel one, to keep the voltage to 5V.
> The output would go to some 5V storage, like powerbank or so, like
> - [PowerBank](https://www.arrow.com/en/products/1565/adafruit-industries)
> - [PowerBoost](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1944)
> - etc...

#### BOM
Bill of Materials, for the electronic part.
- Stepper motor `NEMA 17`
- Rectifier Bridge, like `KBP 307 IC` (one per coil)
- A 1000&micro;F 25V capacitor (one per coil)
- A Voltage regulator, 5V output (one per coil)

### The turbine itself
`To come`.

#### Horizontal axis? Vertical axis?
[Several Options](https://all3dp.com/2/3d-printed-wind-turbines-wind-powered-gadgets/)

#### Transmitting the rotation, or the current?
`To come`.

## The final setting
`To come`.

## Other resources
- [phileole](https://phileole.com/en/homepage/)
- . . .

---
